

# Glossary

`activecode`
A unique interpreter environment that allows Python to be executed from within a web browser.

`algorithm`
A step by step list of instructions that if followed exactly will solve the problem under consideration.

`assignment token`
= is Python’s assignment token, which should not be confused with the mathematical comparison operator using the same symbol.

`bug`
An error in a program.


`boolean expression`
An expression that is either true or false.

`boolean value`
There are exactly two boolean values: True and False. Boolean values result when a boolean expression is evaluated by the Python interepreter. They have type bool.




`byte code`
An intermediate language between `source code` and `object code`. Many modern languages first compile source code into byte code and then interpret the byte code with a program called a virtual machine.

`class`
see data type below

`codelens`
An interactive environment that allows the user to control the step by step execution of a Python program

`comment`
Information in a program that is meant for other programmers (or anyone reading the source code) and `has no effect on the execution` of the program.

`compile`
To translate a program written in a high-level language into a low-level language all at once, in preparation for later execution.

`data type`
A set of values. The type of a value determines how it can be used in expressions. So far, the types you have seen are integers (int), floating-point numbers (float), and strings (str).


`debugging`
The process of finding and removing any of the three kinds of programming errors:
  - *syntax error*,
  - *semantic error*,
  - and *runtime error*.

`decrement`  
Decrease by 1.

`deterministic`
A process that is repeatable and predictable.

`documentation`
A place where you can go to get detailed information about aspects of your programming language.



`evaluate`
To simplify an expression by performing the operations in order to yield a single value.

`expression`
A combination of `operators` and `operands` (variables and values) that represents a single result value. Expressions are evaluated to give that result.


`exception`
Another name for a runtime error.

`executable`
Another name for object code that is ready to be executed.

`float`
A Python data type which stores floating-point numbers. Floating-point numbers are stored internally in two parts: a base and an exponent. When printed in the standard format, they look like decimal numbers. Beware of rounding errors when you use floats, and remember that they are only approximate values.



`formal language`
Any one of the languages that people have designed for specific purposes, such as representing mathematical ideas or computer programs; all programming languages are formal languages.

`high-level language`
A programming language like Python that is designed to be easy for humans to read and write.

`increment`
Both as a noun and as a verb, increment means to increase by 1.

`initialization (of a variable)`
To initialize a variable is to give it an initial value. variables don’t exist until they are assigned values, they are initialized when they are created. In other programming languages this is not the case, and variables can be created without being initialized, in which case they have either default or garbage values.

`int`
A Python data type that holds positive and negative whole numbers.

`integer division`
An operation that divides one integer by another and yields an integer. Integer division yields only the whole number of times that the numerator is divisible by the denominator and discards any remainder.

`interpret`
To execute a program in a high-level language by translating it one line at a time.


`keyword`
A reserved word that is used by the compiler to parse program; you cannot use keywords like if, def, and while as variable names.

`literal`
A number or string that is written directly in a program. Sometimes these are also referred to as literal values, or just values, but be careful not to confuse a literal value as written in a program with an internal value maintained by the Python interpreter during execution of a program.


`low-level language`
A programming language that is designed to be easy for a computer to execute; also called machine language or assembly language.

`module`
A file containing Python definitions and statements intended for use in other Python programs. The contents of a module are made available to the other program by using the import statement.

`namespace`
A naming system for making names unique, to avoid duplication and confusion. Within a namespace, no two names can be the same.


`natural language`
Any one of the languages that people speak that evolved naturally.


`object`
Also known as a data object/value. The fundamental things that programs are designed to manipulate (or that programmers ask to do things for them).


`object code`
The output of the compiler after it translates the program.


`operand`
One of the values on which an operator operates.

`operator`
A special symbol that represents a simple computation like addition, multiplication, or string concatenation.

    `logical operator`
    One of the operators that combines `boolean expressions`: `and, or, and not`.


    `modulus operator`
    An operator, denoted with a percent sign ( %), that works on integers and yields the remainder when one number is divided by another.



`parse`
To examine a program and analyze the syntactic structure.

`portability`
A property of a program that can run on more than one kind of computer.

`print function`
A function used in a program or script that causes the Python interpreter to display a value on its output device.

`problem solving`
The process of *formulating* a problem, *finding* a solution, and *expressing* the solution.

`program`
A sequence of instructions that specifies to a computer actions and computations to be performed.

`programming language`
A vocabulary and set of grammatical rules for instructing a computer or computing device to perform specific tasks.

`prompt string`
Used during `interactive input` to provide the use with hints as to what type of value to enter.



`Python shell`
An `interactive user interface` to the Python interpreter, and the user of a Python shell types commands at the prompt (>>>), and presses the return key to send these commands immediately to the interpreter for processing. To initiate the Python Shell, the user should open the terminal and type “python”. Once the user presses enter, the Python Shell appears and the user can interact with it.

`random number`
A number that is generated in such a way as to exhibit statistical randomness.

`random number generator`
A function that will provide you with random numbers, usually between 0 and 1.



`reference diagram`
A picture showing a `variable` with an arrow pointing to the `value (object`) that the variable refers to. See also state snapshot.

`rules of precedence`
The set of rules governing the order in which expressions involving multiple operators and operands are evaluated.


`runtime error`
An error that `does not occur until the program has started to execute` but that prevents the program from continuing.

`semantic error`
An error in a program that makes it do something other than what the programmer intended.

`semantics` 语义学
The meaning of a program.

`shell mode`
A mode of using Python where expressions can be typed and executed in the command prompt, and the results are shown immediately in the command terminal window. Shell mode is initiated by opening the terminal of your operating system and typing “python”. Press enter and the Python Shell will appear. This is in contrast to source code. Also see the entry under Python shell.

`source code`
The instructions in a program, stored in a file, in a `high-level language` before being compiled or interpreted.

`standard library`
A collection of modules that are part of the normal installation of Python.

`state snapshot`
A graphical representation of a set of variables and the values to which they refer, taken at a particular instant during the program’s execution.

`statement`
An instruction that the Python interpreter can execute. assignment statement, import statement, for statement...

`str`
A Python data type that holds a string of characters.



`syntax`
The structure of a program.

`syntax error`
An error in a program that makes it impossible to parse — and therefore impossible to interpret.

`token`
One of the basic elements of the syntactic structure of a program, analogous to a word in a natural language.

`type conversion function`
A function that can convert a data value from one type to another.

`value`
A number or string (or other things to be named later) that can be stored in a variable or computed in an expression.

`variable`
A name that refers to a value.

`variable name`
A name given to a variable. Variable names in Python consist of a sequence of letters `(a..z, A..Z, and _)` and digits (0..9) that begins with a letter. In best programming practice, variable names should be chosen so that they describe their use in the program, making the program self documenting.
