# learn java

[toc]

## Getting Started
### The "Hello World!" Application
#### Create an IDE Project
1. Launch the NetBeans IDE.
    * On Mac OS X systems, click the NetBeans IDE application icon.
2. In the NetBeans IDE, `choose File | New Project`.
    * NetBeans IDE with `the File | New Project` menu item selected.
3. In the New Project wizard, expand the Java category and select Java Application as shown in the following figure:
4. In the Name and Location page of the wizard, do the following (as shown in the figure below):
    * In the `Project Name field`, type `Hello World App`.
    * In the `Create Main Class` field, type `helloworldapp.HelloWorldApp`.
5. Click Finish.
#### Add Code to the Generated Source File
When you created this project, you left the `Create Main Class checkbox` selected in the New Project wizard. The IDE has therefore created a skeleton class for you.

* You can add the "Hello World!" message to the skeleton code by replacing the line:

```
// TODO code application logic here
```
with the line:

```
System.out.println("Hello World!"); // Display the string.
```

* Optionally, you can replace these four lines of generated code:

```
/**
 *
 * @author
 */
```
with these lines:

```
/**
 * The HelloWorldApp class implements an application that
 * simply prints "Hello World!" to standard output.
 */
```
(These four lines are a `code comment` and do not affect how the program runs.)

#### Be Careful When You Type uppercase and lowercase letter.
Note: Type all code, commands, and file names exactly as shown. Both the `compiler (javac)` and `launcher (java)` are case-sensitive, so you must capitalize consistently.
*HelloWorldApp is not the same as helloworldapp.*

Save your changes by choosing `File | Save`.

The file should look something like the following:

```
/*
 * To change this template, choose Tools | Templates
 * and open the template in the editor.
 */

package helloworldapp;

/**
 * The HelloWorldApp class implements an application that
 * simply prints "Hello World!" to standard output.
 */
public class HelloWorldApp {


    /**
     * @param args the command line arguments
     */
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello World!"); // Display the string.
    }

}
```

#### Compile the Source File into a .class File
To compile your source file, choose `Run | Build Project (Hello World App)` from the IDE's main menu.

The Output window opens and displays output:

* If the build output concludes with the statement `BUILD SUCCESSFUL`, congratulations! You have successfully compiled your program!
* If the build output concludes with the statement `BUILD FAILED`, you probably have a syntax error in your code. Errors are reported in the Output window as hyperlinked text. You `double-click such a hyperlink` to navigate to the source of an error. You can then fix the error and once again choose `Run | Build Project`.

When you build the project, the bytecode file `HelloWorldApp.class` is generated. You can see where the new file is generated by opening the Files window and expanding the `Hello World App/build/classes/helloworldapp` node as shown in the following figure.

#### Run the Program
From the IDE's menu bar, choose `Run | Run Main Project`.
The program prints "Hello World!" to the Output window (along with other output from the build script).

Congratulations! Your program works!

#### Continuing the Tutorial with the NetBeans IDE

* Once you have `created a project` in the IDE, you can add files to the project using the `New File wizard`. Choose `File | New File`, and then select a template in the wizard, such as the Empty Java File template.
* You can *compile and run an individual file* (as opposed to a whole project) using the IDE's `Compile File (F9)` and `Run File (Shift-F6)` commands. If you use the `Run Main Project` command, the IDE will *run the file that the IDE associates as the main class of the main project*. Therefore, if you create an additional class in your `HelloWorldApp project` and then try to run that file with the `Run Main Project` command, the IDE will run the HelloWorldApp file instead.
* You might want to create separate IDE projects for sample applications that include more than one source file.
* As you are typing in the IDE, a *code completion box* might periodically appear. You can either ignore the code completion box and keep typing, or you can select one of the suggested expressions. If you would prefer not to have the code completion box *automatically appear*, you can turn off the feature. Choose `Tools | Options | Editor`, click the `Code Completion tab` and clear the `Auto Popup Completion Window` checkbox.
* If you want to *rename the node* for a source file in the Projects window, choose `Refactor` from IDE's `main menu`. The IDE prompts you with the Rename dialog box to lead you through the options of renaming the class and the updating of code that refers to that class. Make the changes and click `Refactor` to apply the changes. This sequence of clicks might seem unnecessary if you have just a single class in your project, but it is very useful when your changes affect other parts of your code in larger projects.

### Lesson: A Closer Look at the "Hello World!" Application

```java
class HelloWorldApp {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello World!"); // Display the string.
    }
}
```
The "Hello World!" application consists of three primary components: `source code comments`, the `HelloWorldApp class definition`, and the `main method`.
#### Source Code Comments
The following bold text defines the comments of the "Hello World!" application:

```java
/**
 * The HelloWorldApp class implements an application that
 * simply prints "Hello World!" to standard output.
 */
class HelloWorldApp {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello World!"); // Display the string.
    }
}
```

`Comments` are ignored by the compiler but are useful to other programmers. The Java programming language supports three kinds of comments:

* `/* text */`
The compiler ignores everything from `/* to */`.
* `/** documentation */`
This indicates a documentation comment (doc comment, for short). The compiler ignores this kind of comment, just like it ignores comments that use `/* and */`. The javadoc tool uses doc comments when preparing automatically generated documentation. For more information on javadoc, see the Javadoc™ tool documentation .
`// text`
The compiler ignores everything from `//` to the end of the line.

#### The HelloWorldApp Class Definition
**class HelloWorldApp {**
As shown above, the most basic form of a *class definition* is:

```java
class name {
    . . .
}
```
The keyword class begins the class definition for a `class named name`, and the `code` for each class appears between `the opening and closing curly braces` marked in bold above.
Chapter 2 provides an overview of classes in general,
Chapter 4 discusses classes in detail.
For now it is enough to know that every application begins with a class definition.

#### The main Method
**public static void main(String[] args) {**
In the Java programming language, every application must contain a main method whose signature is:

```
public static void main(String[] args)
```
The modifiers `public` and `static` can be written in either order (`public static` or `static public`), but the convention is to use public static as shown above. You can name the argument anything you want, but most programmers choose `"args"` or `"argv"`.


The main method accepts a single argument: an `array of elements` of type `String`.
**public static void main(String[] args)**

This array is the mechanism through which the runtime system passes information to your application. For example:

**java MyApp arg1 arg2**

Each string in the array is called a `command-line argument`. `Command-line arguments` let users affect the operation of the application without recompiling it. For example, a sorting program might allow the user to specify that the data be sorted in descending order with this command-line argument:

-descending

The "Hello World!" application ignores its command-line arguments, but you should be aware of the fact that such arguments do exist.

**System.out.println("Hello World!");**
uses the System class from the core library to print the "Hello World!" message to standard output.
Portions of this library (also known as the "Application Programming Interface", or "API") will be discussed throughout the remainder of the tutorial.

### Lesson: Common Problems (and Their Solutions)
#### Compiler Problems
1. Syntax Errors (All Platforms)
If you mistype part of a program, the compiler may issue a syntax error. The message usually displays `the type of the error`, `the line number where the error was detected`, `the code on that line`, and `the position of the error within the code`.
Here's an error caused by **omitting a semicolon (;) at the end of a statement**:

```java
testing.java:14: `;' expected.
System.out.println("Input has " + count + " chars.")
                                                     ^
1 error
```
Sometimes the compiler can't guess your intent and prints a confusing error message or multiple error messages if the error cascades over several lines. For example, the following code snippet omits a **semicolon (;)** from the bold line:

```java
while (System.in.read() != -1)
    count++
System.out.println("Input has " + count + " chars.");
```
When processing this code, the compiler issues two error messages:

testing.java:13: Invalid type expression.
        count++
                 ^
testing.java:14: Invalid declaration.
    System.out.println("Input has " + count + " chars.");
                      ^
2 errors
The compiler issues two error messages because after it processes count++, the compiler's state indicates that it's in the middle of an expression. Without the semicolon, the compiler has no way of knowing that the statement is complete.

If you see any compiler errors, then your program did not successfully compile, and the compiler did not create a .class file. Carefully verify the program, fix any errors that you detect, and try again.

Semantic Errors

In addition to verifying that your program is syntactically correct, the compiler checks for other basic correctness. For example, the compiler warns you each time you use a variable that has not been initialized:

testing.java:13: Variable count may not have been initialized.
        count++
        ^
testing.java:14: Variable count may not have been initialized.
    System.out.println("Input has " + count + " chars.");
                                       ^
2 errors
Again, your program did not successfully compile, and the compiler did not create a .class file. Fix the error and try again.

Runtime Problems
Error Messages on Microsoft Windows Systems

Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: HelloWorldApp

If you receive this error, java cannot find your bytecode file, HelloWorldApp.class.

One of the places java tries to find your .class file is your current directory. So if your .class file is in C:\java, you should change your current directory to that. To change your directory, type the following command at the prompt and press Enter:

cd c:\java
The prompt should change to C:\java>. If you enter dir at the prompt, you should see your .java and .class files. Now enter java HelloWorldApp again.

If you still have problems, you might have to change your CLASSPATH variable. To see if this is necessary, try clobbering the classpath with the following command.

set CLASSPATH=
Now enter java HelloWorldApp again. If the program works now, you'll have to change your CLASSPATH variable. To set this variable, consult the Updating the PATH variable section in the JDK 8 installation instructions. The CLASSPATH variable is set in the same manner.

Could not find or load main class HelloWorldApp.class

A common mistake made by beginner programmers is to try and run the java launcher on the .class file that was created by the compiler. For example, you'll get this error if you try to run your program with java HelloWorldApp.class instead of java HelloWorldApp. Remember, the argument is the name of the class that you want to use, not the filename.

Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoSuchMethodError: main

The Java VM requires that the class you execute with it have a main method at which to begin execution of your application. A Closer Look at the "Hello World!" Application discusses the main method in detail.

Error Messages on UNIX Systems

Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: HelloWorldApp

If you receive this error, java cannot find your bytecode file, HelloWorldApp.class.

One of the places java tries to find your bytecode file is your current directory. So, for example, if your bytecode file is in /home/jdoe/java, you should change your current directory to that. To change your directory, type the following command at the prompt and press Return:

cd /home/jdoe/java
If you enter pwd at the prompt, you should see /home/jdoe/java. If you enter ls at the prompt, you should see your .java and .class files. Now enter java HelloWorldApp again.

If you still have problems, you might have to change your CLASSPATH environment variable. To see if this is necessary, try clobbering the classpath with the following command.

unset CLASSPATH
Now enter java HelloWorldApp again. If the program works now, you'll have to change your CLASSPATH variable in the same manner as the PATH variable above.

Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: HelloWorldApp/class

A common mistake made by beginner programmers is to try and run the java launcher on the .class file that was created by the compiler. For example, you'll get this error if you try to run your program with java HelloWorldApp.class instead of java HelloWorldApp. Remember, the argument is the name of the class that you want to use, not the filename.

Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoSuchMethodError: main

The Java VM requires that the class you execute with it have a main method at which to begin execution of your application. A Closer Look at the "Hello World!" Application discusses the main method in detail.

Applet or Java Web Start Application Is Blocked

If you are running an application through a browser and get security warnings that say the application is blocked, check the following items:

Verify that the attributes in the JAR file manifest are set correctly for the environment in which the application is running. The Permissions attribute is required. In a NetBeans project, you can open the manifest file from the Files tab of the NetBeans IDE by expanding the project folder and double-clicking manifest.mf.

Verify that the application is signed by a valid certificate and that the certificate is located in the Signer CA keystore.

If you are running a local applet, set up a web server to use for testing. You can also add your application to the exception site list, which is managed in the Security tab of the Java Control Panel.

## Trail: Learning the Java Language

### Object-Oriented Programming Concepts
#### What Is an Object?
Real-world objects share two characteristics:

1. `state`:"What possible states can this object be in?"
2. `behavior`:"What possible behavior can this object perform?"
* Dogs have state (name, color, breed, hungry) and behavior (barking, fetching, wagging tail).
* Bicycles also have state (current gear, current pedal cadence, current speed) and behavior (changing gear, changing pedal cadence, applying brakes).
* desktop lamp may have only two possible states (on and off) and two possible behaviors (turn on, turn off)
* desktop radio might have additional states (on, off, current volume, current station) and behavior (turn on, turn off, increase volume, decrease volume, seek, scan, and tune).

Identifying the state and behavior for real-world objects is a great way to begin thinking in terms of `object-oriented programming`.

Software objects are conceptually similar to real-world objects: they consist of state and related behavior.

An object stores its state in fields (variables in some programming languages) and exposes its behavior through methods (functions in some programming languages).

Methods operate on an object's internal state and serve as the primary mechanism for object-to-object communication.

`Hiding internal state` and `requiring all interaction to be performed through an object's methods` is known as `data encapsulation包装,封装；包裹` — a fundamental principle of object-oriented programming.

`Bundling code` into individual software objects provides a number of benefits, including:

1. `Modularity 模块性`: The source code for an object can be written and maintained independently of the source code for other objects. Once created, an object can be easily passed around inside the system.
2. `Information-hiding`: By interacting only with an object's methods, the details of its internal implementation贯彻，执行 remain hidden from the outside world.
3. `Code re-use`: If an object already exists (perhaps written by another software developer), you can use that object in your program. This allows specialists to implement/test/debug complex, task-specific objects, which you can then trust to run in your own code.
4. `Pluggability可插性 and debugging调试 ease`: If a particular object turns out to be problematic, you can simply remove it from your application and plug in a different object as its replacement. This is analogous相似的,可比拟的 to fixing mechanical problems in the real world. If a bolt breaks, you replace it, not the entire machine.

#### What Is a Class?
In the real world, you'll often find many individual objects all of the same kind. There may be thousands of other bicycles in existence, all of the same make and model. Each bicycle was built from the same set of blueprints and therefore contains the same components. In object-oriented terms, we say that your bicycle is an instance例子 of the `class` of objects known as bicycles.

A `class` is the blueprint from which individual objects are created.

The following `Bicycle class` is one possible implementation贯彻，执行 of a bicycle:

```java
class Bicycle {

    int cadence = 0;
    int speed = 0;
    int gear = 1;

    void changeCadence(int newValue) {
         cadence = newValue;
    }

    void changeGear(int newValue) {
         gear = newValue;
    }

    void speedUp(int increment) {
         speed = speed + increment;   
    }

    void applyBrakes(int decrement消耗) {
         speed = speed - decrement;
    }

    void printStates() {
         System.out.println("cadence:" +
             cadence + " speed:" +
             speed + " gear:" + gear);
    }
}
```
The syntax句法 of the Java programming language will look new to you, but the design of this class is based on the previous discussion of bicycle objects.
The fields cadence, speed, and gear represent the object's `state`, and the `methods` (changeCadence, changeGear, speedUp etc.) define its interaction with the outside world.

You may have noticed that the Bicycle class does not contain a main method. That's because it's not a complete application; it's just the blueprint for bicycles that might be used in an application.
The responsibility of creating and using new Bicycle objects belongs to some other class in your application.

Here's a `BicycleDemo class` that creates two separate Bicycle objects and invokes调用 their methods:

```java
class BicycleDemo {
    public static void main(String[] args) {

        // Create two different
        // Bicycle objects 不显示
        Bicycle bike1 = new Bicycle();
        Bicycle bike2 = new Bicycle();

        // Invoke methods on
        // those objects
        bike1.changeCadence(50);
        bike1.speedUp(10);
        bike1.changeGear(2);
        bike1.printStates();

        bike2.changeCadence(50);
        bike2.speedUp(10);
        bike2.changeGear(2);
        bike2.changeCadence(40);
        bike2.speedUp(10);
        bike2.changeGear(3);
        bike2.printStates();
    }
}
```
The output of this test prints the ending pedal cadence, speed, and gear for the two bicycles:

cadence:50 speed:10 gear:2
cadence:40 speed:20 gear:3

### Language Basics
### Classes and Objects
### Annotations
### Interfaces and Inheritance
### Numbers and Strings
### Generics
### Packages
