
[toc]


# Install Python and PyDev Plugin in Eclipse on MAC
Posted on August 11, 2019 by Ravi Dubey
https://devnetcode.com/2019/08/11/install-python-and-pydev-plugin-in-eclipse-on-mac/


## Download and Install Python 3.7.4
Step 1 – Download Python

Go to URL – https://www.python.org/downloads/ and Click on “Download Python 3.7.4” to download python 3.7.4


Step 2 – Double click on python-3.7.4-macosx10.9.pkg for installing the package


Step 3 – Click Continue


Step 4 – Click Continue Again


Step 5 – Agree with Terms of the software license agreement and click Agree


Step 6 – Click Install


Step 7 – Enter MAC OS Admin Password and click Install Software


Step 8 – Click Close


Step 9 – You can keep the installer OR move to trash


Now PyDev is installed, let’s move further and install Eclipse IDE

## Download and Install Eclipse IDE
Step 10 – Go to eclipse.org and click on Download

URL https://www.eclipse.org


Step 11 – Click Download 64 bit


Step 12 – Click again Download


In Progress – Starting Download


Step 13 – Double Click on the DMG file eclipse-inst-mac64.dmg


Step 14 – Click on Installer


Step 15 – Have a look on Security Warning and Click Open


Step 16 – Install Eclipse IDE for Java Developers

Install the package”Eclipse IDE for Enterprise Java Developers”.


Step 17 – Check the installation folder location and click Install


Step 18 – Trust these certificate (Checkbox) and click Accept Selected


Step 19 – Click Launch


Step 20 – Choose a workspace, where the project files will be stored and click Launch


Note – If you don’t see this popup OR you want to change the workspace

Go to File → Switch Workspace → other

Step 21 – Click on Configuration Setting (Have a look). Uncheck the bottom right if you don’t want to see the screen. Close this screen and


Install PyDev Plugin in Eclipse IDE
Note-

You may need to install the latest Java JDK/JRE before installing PyDev.
Step 22 – Go to Help > Drop Down > Eclipse Marketplace


Step 23 – Search pydev and click Go


Step 24 – Click Install


Step 25 – Click Confirm >


Step 26 – Accept and click Finish

Read the license and select I accept the terms of the license agreement. Then click Finish.


Step 27 – Trust these Certificate and click Accept Selected

From version 5.9.0 onwards, PyDev is built with a certificate in the name of “Brainwy Software Ltda” (previously it used a self-signed certificate).


Step 28 – When being successfully installed, you need to restart Eclipse. Click on Restart Now.

Step 29 – Click on Open Perspective (Right Side Corner). If you see PyDev on the Wizard window, it means that PyDev has been successfully installed on Eclipse.

Select PyDev > Click Open


Create Eclipse Python Project, Package And Module In PyDev.
After successfully install the eclipse PyDev plugin, you can now use it to create a python project.

Step 30 – Right Click on- PyDev Package Explorer – New > Project


Step 31 – Select PyDev and click Open


Configuring Interpreter

Step 32 – Select Grammer Version – 3.6 and Click on Please configure an interpreter before proceeding

Python Interpreter is an interpreter used to translate Python code (written by programmer) into computer code. You need to declare it to Eclipse.

How do you know if an interpreter is not correctly configured?

You will see error once you write Project Name “Project Interpreter not specified” (See Top Message)

Reason for this Error – No interpreter setting. And MAC OS will use the default which is 2.7.4- Shown in Step 2

PyDev Project settings dialog popup. In this dialog, you should select the project directory, input project name, and most importantly you need to configure an interpreter for the PyDev project.


Step 33 – Click on Manual Config

Just click the blue link under the Interpreter section in above dialog. A configure interpreter dialog will popup like below.


Step 34 – Click Choose from the list, Select python3.7, Click OK

These are the location of file python.exe. The file is in the Python directory that you have already installed.


Step 35 – Click OK again

In the next popup dialog, select all the libraries that you want to add to the system python path. Click OK button to complete the PyDev project creation.


Step 36 – Apply and Close


Step 37 – Click Finish


Step 38 – Project Explorer > Right Click > Click on New > PyDev Module


Step 39 – Enter the name of the module “helloworld” and click Finish


Step 40 – Click OK


Step 41 – Click OK


Now the helloworld python module has been created.

Write your first program – Hello World
Step 53 – Type print (“Hello World”) in the code and print command > Run (Top Left) and Check the Console (Bottom). Alternatively – Right click the python file source code, click Run As —> Python Run menu item, then the python file will be executed.


Alternative – Run the command


Wow !! Your first program – “Hello World” is working now.
